2019 Prospects: Oakland Athletics Top 10 Prospects
Jeffrey Paternostro, Jarrett Seidler, Wilson Karaman, and BP Prospect Staff
February 6, 2019
The State of the System: It feels like a better system that it actually is since most of the pitchers are hurt and one of the toolsy outfielders is actually a football player.
The Top Ten:
1.	Jesus Luzardo, LHP
2.	A.J. Puk, LHP
3.	Sean Murphy, C
4.	Kyler Murray, OF/QB
5.	Lazaro Armenteros, OF
6.	Austin Beck, OF
7.	Grant Holmes, RHP
8.	James Kaprielian, RHP
9.	Jorge Mateo, SS
10.	Jameson Hannah, OF
***
1. Jesus Luzardo, LHP
DOB: 9/30/97
Height/Weight: 6’1”/ 205 lbs. 
Bats/Throws: L/L
Drafted/Acquired: Drafted 94th overall in the 2016 draft, Stoneman-Douglas HS (Parkland, FL); signed for $1.4 million. 
Previous Ranking(s): #4 (org.) #88 (Top 101)
2018 Stats: 1.23 ERA, 1.70 DRA, 14.7 IP, 6 IP, 5 BB, 25 K in 3 games at High-A Stockton; 2.29 ERA, 3.40 DRA, 78.7 IP, 58 H, 18 BB, 86 K in 16 games at Double-A Midland; 7.31 ERA, 2.90 DRA, 16 IP, 25 H, 7 BB, 18 K in 4 games at Triple-A Nashville
The Report: Luzardo is one of the most polished and skilled pitchers you’ll see in the minor leagues. He has a relatively short pitcher’s frame and doesn’t have overly long levers, but is a plus athlete with quality quick twitch and coordination. He has very clean arm action and while his delivery can be a bit rotational, he has no trouble repeating his release point. He sits 93-95 with the four-seam fastball and has average command of the offering. His primary secondary is a plus 85-86 changeup with good arm speed, tumble, and some fade. Luzardo was obviously working on finding consistency with his breaking ball in the two starts I saw him, but the 82-84 curve flashed plus multiple times, with plus depth and spin. The pitch has both vertical and horizontal break when located at the knees or higher, but the bottom drops out when he throws it below the zone.
Luzardo also showed impressive pitchability, as he was comfortable using his breaking ball early in counts to surprise the hitter for an easy strike one. He threw his changeup sparingly and was able to get hitters to whiff just by locating his fastball and breaking ball. 

Luzardo profiles as a No. 3 starter on a first division team with a real possibility at being one of the better pitchers in the game if his command develops further.
The Role:

OFP: 70—No. 2 starter
Likely: 60—No. 3 starter
The Risks:

Medium. The risk is about as low as it gets for pitchers who have already had UCL trouble. He has great feel for two of his three plus offerings, and average command. He’s ready for the big leagues, and as his body finishes maturing and he gains experience, his command and feel should get even better. —Kevin Carter
Major league ETA: 2019
Ben Carsley’s Fantasy Take: For my money, Luzardo is the second-best pitching prospect in the game, trailing only Forrest Whitley. In the top-101 that also came out today, I compared him to the best version of James Paxton, and I truly believe that’s his upside. Sure, he already has TJ on his resume, but he’s far removed from the procedure and clearly hasn’t suffered from it. Luzardo is a top-20 overall fantasy prospect and a stud in the making. I expect him to serve as a fantasy SP2/3 for as long as he’s healthy.

2. A.J. Puk, LHP
DOB: 4/25/95
Height/Weight: 6’7”/ 220 lbs. 
Bats/Throws: L/L
Drafted/Acquired: Drafted 6th overall in the 2016 draft, University of Florida (Gainesville, FL); signed for $4.0692 million.
Previous Ranking(s): #1 (org.) #30 (Top 101)
2018 Stats: DNP
The Report: There’s an alternate timeline where Puk doesn’t blow out his UCL last spring and carves up the minors on the way to a fabulous late-season debut and Wild Card game start. Despite their surprise 2018 playoff run, the A’s might have preferred that fork in the multiverse as well, as they enter 2019 with Yusmeiro Petit among their best five starting options. But you can’t change the past—even if you have Jose Canseco’s time machine—and pitchers of all stripes break. Puk won’t be ready for Opening Day 2019, but you should see him sometime in the summer.
Before the injury the stuff was, well, good enough to rank Puk as a top 30 prospect in baseball. He hits the mid-90s—sometimes higher—from the left side with premium extension and deception, a slider that looked like a potential 7 on its good days—and mechanical issues that left him struggling at times to throw enough strikes. The stuff was good enough that it didn’t really matter in the minors, but we will have to see how much of it comes back from surgery. (Anecdotally, I tend to be more concerned about the “bad mechanics” dudes coming back, but that’s a personal predilection with no real science backing it). There was always a fair bit of reliever risk in the profile, but with that two-pitch combo, Puk would have closer stuff.  
The Role:
OFP 60—No. 3 starter or closer
Likely 50—No. 4 starter or setup  
The Risks: High. Puk is coming off Tommy John surgery and has missed significant, important development time. We won’t really know what he is now until he steps on a mound in Arizona sometime this summer. If you want to look at positive variance this could easily be a 70/50 if you were so inclined.
Major league ETA: 2020
Ben Carsley’s Fantasy Take: As we’ve preached many, many times, the no. 1 thing dynasty leaguers should be looking for in their pitching prospects is strikeouts. That makes Puk perhaps an even better fantasy prospect than IRL one, as he should routinely strike out more than a batter per inning in whatever capacity he pitches. Is the dream that he morphs into a high-strikeout, tolerable-WHIP pitcher, a la Patrick Corbin? Yes. But even if he as to move to the bullpen, Puk could have Andrew Miller’s career. That’d make him ownable in the vast majority of leagues even if he wasn’t a closer.

3. Sean Murphy, C
DOB: 10/10/94
Height/Weight: 6’3”/ 215 lbs. 
Bats/Throws: R/R
Drafted/Acquired: Drafted 83rd overall in the 2016 draft, Wright State University; signed for $753,100
Previous Ranking(s): #10 (org)
2018 Stats: .200/.200/400, 0 HR, 0 SB in 2 games at Rookie League AZL Athletics; .288/.358/.498, 8 HR, 3 SB in 68 games at Double-A Midland; .250/.500/.250, 0 HR, 0 SB in 3 games at Triple-A Nashville
The Report: Murphy is the best defender among the top tier catching prospects in baseball right now. He flashes a plus-plus arm and is an athletic backstop who draws raves for his receiving and staff management already. There are minor durability concerns, as he’s missed time with a broken hamate in both 2016 and 2018, but those tend to be more freakish type things, and he doesn’t have a third one to break anyway.
As a potential 70-grade defender behind the plate, Murphy won’t have to hit much to be a major-league regular. He has plus raw power in his locker though, and has had some success getting to it in games (it’s worth mentioning that he’s generally been old for the level at his minor-league stops). The swing is a bit stiff, although that has manifested more in poor quality of contact than swing-and-miss so far. But even with a below-average hit tool and average pop, Murphy’s glove is good enough to make him a solid regular. Anything past that, and he could play in a few all-star games.   
The Role:
OFP 60—Defensive-minded catcher with enough pop to be a plus regular
Likely 50—Glove-first average backstop  
The Risks: Medium. It would be low, but catchers are weird, and Murphy keeps breaking his hamate bone. The defensive profile should be good enough to keep him employed in the fraternal order of backup catchers for a decade even if he doesn’t really hit.
Major league ETA: Late 2019
Ben Carsley’s Fantasy Take: You should stay away from catching prospects in general in dynasty leagues. Glove-first catching prospects? That’s a hard no. Murphy may be of interest in AL-only squads once he starts playing, but he lacks the upside to routinely perform as a top 12-or-so option at the position. And given the state of the position, that’s saying something.
4. Kyler Murray, OF/QB
DOB: 8/7/97
Height/Weight: 5’11”/ 195 lbs. 
Bats/Throws: R/R
Drafted/Acquired: 2019 NFL Draft eligible
Previous Ranking(s): #1 (Heisman Trophy)
2018 Stats: 4361 Yds, 42 TD/7 INT, 69 percent passing, 140 rushing attempts for 1001 yards and 12 TD in 14 games at FBS University of Oklahoma
The Report: Murray originally signed with Texas A&M out of high school as a five-star quarterback recruit, and was widely regarded as the best prep football player in the country. He platooned for the Aggies in 2015 as a true freshman before transferring to Oklahoma where he initially played sparingly behind Baker Mayfield. Murray won a 2018 camp battle to claim Oklahoma’s starting role after reaching a deal with the A’s to play his redshirt junior football season while under a baseball contract. He proceeded to have one of the best seasons in college football history, usurping Alabama quarterback Tua Tagovailoa for the Heisman Trophy, and leading Oklahoma to the Orange Bowl.
Meanwhile, Murray had a parallel career in baseball. He was also considered a first-round MLB Draft prospect out of high school, but removed his name from the draft pool entirely. He didn’t play baseball at all at A&M, but did join the Sooners as a sophomore in 2017. He scuffled badly initially, and scuffled some more in the Cape Cod League that summer. But then he had a brilliant junior campaign, establishing himself once more as a top baseball player for his class as an athletic five-tool center field prospect. This time he was interested in a career on the diamond, and the A’s drafted him ninth overall and signed him for $4.66 million, only very slightly below slot value.
Despite his recruiting pedigree, Murray was not considered a particularly great NFL quarterback prospect until this past fall, which was why the A’s felt reasonably secure drafting him in the top ten and letting him play an additional season of football. He’s small—quarterbacks generally have to be over six feet to be high draft picks—and he just hadn’t played enough in college to overcome the height issue perception. But the NFL is changing to a quick passing, dynamic offensive league built around run/pass options and space plays, and Murray is a perfect fit for the new wave of football. Mayfield made a similar late rise in Lincoln Riley’s system at Oklahoma, and he exploded on the NFL scene in 2018. Combine all that with a weak quarterback class, and all of a sudden Murray is the talk of the gridiron in a way Oakland couldn’t have expected when drafting him.
We’re reading tea leaves here, but it seems more likely at this moment in time that he’s going to play professional football—and only professional football—moving forward.
The Role:
OFP 70 — Elite dual-threat quarterback
Likely 60 — Long-term starter and occasional Pro Bowler
The Risks: So yeah, we ranked Kyler Murray as the 101st best prospect in baseball. The list locked for book publication literally the day of the Orange Bowl. At the time, he was still committed to baseball, and we do tend to reserve the 101st spot for the most interesting OFP 60 type who didn’t make the top 100 proper.
In the month-plus since, Murray has publicly wavered on which sport he’d play, declared for the NFL Draft, failed to come to a new contractual agreement with the Athletics, and is poised to go at or near the top of a second sport’s draft. He was already interesting and he’s become far more interesting, but not in the way you want if you have a vested interest in seeing him play baseball. He might still play baseball, if not immediately than perhaps down the road. He might even try to play both eventually, and if he was somehow successful at that, he’d be the biggest star in sports.
Football jokes aside, we’d rate Murray as a high risk OFP 60/Likely 50 as a baseball prospect. That’s akin to Travis Swaggerty, a top 101 guy with a similar toolsy college outfielder profile who went right after him in last summer’s draft. He has all the baseball tools you’d expect from a guy who went in the top ten despite all the risk involved, though he’s raw due to lack of reps. We’re just not convinced he’s going to pick baseball anymore, which is a risk so big that it is basically all that’s worth talking about. —Jarrett Seidler
National Football League ETA: September 2019.
Ben Carsley’s Fantasy Take: We covered the Murray situation in the top-101 that also dropped today. You can read our full take here, but TL;DR: He’d be a top-60ish prospect if we knew he was committed to baseball, but it sure seems like he’s not committed to baseball. Do with that information what you will.

5. Lazaro Armenteros, OF
DOB: 5/22/99
Height/Weight: 6’0”/ 182 lbs. 
Bats/Throws: R/R
Drafted/Acquired: Signed July 2016 by the Athletics out of Cuba for $3 million. 
Previous Ranking(s): #8 (org.)
2018 Stats: .277/.374/.401, 8 HR, 8 SB in 79 games at Low-A Beloit
The Report: Two months into the season, Lazarito looked like a sure shot 2019 Top 101 name. A polished outfielder with potential plus hit and power tools off to a good start in full-season ball at 19? Yes please. Even after a quad injury cost him a month, he made the honorable mentions for the midseason 50.
Lazarito was a mess after coming back from his injury, so we are cooling our jets a little bit. While he didn’t quite look one hundred percent in the late summer, we don’t foresee any long term effects here. Given that he’s a far from a sure shot to stick up the middle, any lower body injuries are going to be a little concerning though, especially since his below-average arm would force him to left.
You’re buying the bat here anyway, and despite a toe tap and leg kick for timing, Lazarito has fluid, well-balanced hitting mechanics married to a good approach and above-average barrel control. The plus power is mostly theoretical at this point, but the swing has some loft, and you’d expect him to add strength in his twenties. It wasn’t quite the breakout season we expected around Memorial Day, but it’s also hard to quibble with the overall performance from a teenager in the Midwest League. So while we aren’t firing the afterburners quite yet, we’ll keep the engine running.
The Role:
OFP 60—Plus outfielder, maybe in center, but definitely bat first
Likely 50—Average left fielder  
The Risks: High. He’s more polished than toolsy, although the tools aren’t bad at all. He’s also got half an injury-marred A-ball season under his belt, and he may have to slide to left field.
Major league ETA: 2021
Ben Carsley’s Fantasy Take: Lazarito didn’t make it onto our top-101, but he’d be among the next 50 names. A healthy campaign where he holds his own against better competition could see Armenteros make a sizable jump up our rankings, however, and he’s a good one to try to buy low on if someone else in your league is out of patience. A future as an OF3 is still in play, albeit perhaps less likely than an OF4/5 outcome.

6. Austin Beck, OF
DOB: 11/21/98
Height/Weight: 6’1”/ 200 lbs. 
Bats/Throws: R/R
Drafted/Acquired: Drafted 6th overall in the 2017 draft, North Davidson HS (Lexington, NC); signed for $5.303 million.
Previous Ranking(s): #6 (org.) 
2018 Stats: .296/.335/.383, 2 HR, 8 SB in 123 games at Low-A Beloit
The Report: Beck played well in the Midwest League last summer, looking every bit like the toolsy athlete the A’s envisioned when they popped him with the sixth overall pick in the 2017 draft. He made great strides at the plate, cleaning up his approach and reducing his strikeout rate. He still tends to chase breaking stuff but he adjusts well and has enough barrel control to project an average hit tool. He’s more of a doubles hitter than a true power threat at this point, but his plus raw will eventually play in games. Quick and athletic, he’s a plus runner who plays a quality centerfield. His instincts are sound and he’s got enough arm for right field if needed.
There’s still no guarantee Beck hits upper-level arms, but he’s off to a good start. There’s plenty of upside remaining too, but to reach his ceiling as a first division centerfielder, he’ll need to get more of his raw power into games.
The Role:
OFP 60—Plus center fielder
Likely 45—Second division outfielder
The Risks: High. He’s still very raw and has yet to face pitching above Low A. —Nathan Graham
Major league ETA: 2022
Ben Carsley’s Fantasy Take: I considered Beck toward the end of my personal top-101, and I think it’s safe to say he’s a top-125-ish prospect at this point. You sort of wish that one out of his ETA, floor, or ceiling was more fantasy-friendly, but at the end of the day there’s still the makings of a very solid all-around fantasy OF3 here if it all clicks. If Beck performs well against tougher pitching, it’s easy to imagine him being a borderline top-50 guy a year from now.

7. Grant Holmes, RHP
DOB: 3/22/96
Height/Weight: 6’1”/ 215 lbs. 
Bats/Throws: L/R
Drafted/Acquired: Drafted 22nd overall in the 2015 draft, Conway HS (Conway, SC); signed for $2.5 million; Acquired via trade with the Los Angeles Dodgers for Rich Hill and Josh Reddick.
Previous Ranking(s): #7 (org.)
2018 Stats: 4.50 ERA, 3.90 DRA, 6 IP, 4 H, 2 BB, 8 K in 2 games at High-A Stockton
The Report: I’ve been a fan of Holmes since his draft year, and it isn’t just the plus-plus flow. He’s never quite fully broken out, but looked well on his way to being a useful major-league arm by the close of the 2017 season. And hey, he was 21 and had a year of moderate Double-A success under his belt. Maybe 2018 would be the year he broke out?
Instead, 2018 was the year he broke; pitchers, man. Holmes missed almost the full season with a rotator cuff injury. No one will confuse me with a doctor, but I believe that’s connected to the shoulder, and you don’t need to be a doctor to know that shoulder injuries for pitchers are, uh, bad. Very bad.
When he did toe the rubber, the stuff looked more or less like it did in 2017: fastball up to 95, potential plus breaker, but six inning samples aren’t gonna keep you in a meaningful spot on a team’s prospect list. Amazingly though, he’s not even the riskiest or the least healthy arm on this list. Pitchers, man.
The Role:
OFP 55—No. 3/4 starter or setup
Likely 40—Good middle-reliever  
The Risks: Extreme. The stuff looked fine in his brief post-rotator-cuff-issue appearances, but uh he also missed most of the year with a shoulder injury, so….
Major league ETA: Late 2019 or early 2020, health permitting
Ben Carsley’s Fantasy Take: Holmes used to be a bit of a BP Fantasy Team favorite, but at this point there’s relatively little that distinguishes him from the myriad backend/spot fantasy starter types who litter these lists … except for a shoulder injury. Unless you roster 200-plus prospects Holmes can be and should already have been dropped.

8. James Kaprielian, RHP
DOB: 3/2/94
Height/Weight: 6’4”/ 200 lbs. 
Bats/Throws: R/R
Drafted/Acquired: Drafted 16th overall in the 2015 draft, UCLA (Los Angeles, CA); signed for $2.65 million; acquired via trade with the New York Yankees for Sonny Gray
Previous Ranking(s): #9 (org.)
2018 Stats: DNP
The Report: It’s been over 33 months since Kaprielian last took the mound in a regular-season game. He missed most of 2016 with flexor problems, but came back and was fantastically impressive in the Arizona Fall League, with a big velocity spike causing his perceived upside to jump substantially—enough that he climbed into our top 101 that winter. He arrived in camp with the wind at his back and a chance to rocket through New York’s farm system and… immediately blew out his UCL. 
He was included in the Sonny Gray trade while rehabbing, and was expected to return to game action by midseason as an Oakland farmhand. He didn’t return at all, with a troubled rehab plagued by shoulder injuries, although he was throwing during instructs. He’s going to (hopefully) return in 2019 as a 25-year-old with 56⅓ innings, all in the low-minors or the AFL, and all in 2015 and 2016.
The last time we saw Kaprielian toe the rubber regularly, he possessed top-of-the-rotation stuff: four pitches that projected above-average, led with a fastball sitting 94-97 and touching 99. Obviously, we have utterly no idea whether he can recapture that form, or maintain it in any type of regular pitching role. But it was good enough that he landed as the 58th best prospect in baseball back then, despite missing six months with a known Tommy John surgery precursor. It was good enough that he was a key part of a major trade while hurt. It was good enough that two years later, after a troubled rehab and without ever throwing a real pitch in their system, the A’s added him to the 40-man roster. And it was good enough that we’re still ranking him today.
The Role:
OFP 55—The good Nathan Eovaldi, but less healthy
Likely 40—The bad Nathan Eovaldi, but less healthy
The Risks: As extreme as anyone in baseball. Our dearly departed leader Craij (RIP Craij) used Kaprielian as the example of players for whom the beta was so high that the role grades undershot the risk last spring, and that was before he missed another season. He could be in the majors in a few months if he’s healthy; he might also never throw a pitch in the upper-minors. —Jarrett Seidler
Major league ETA: 2019, if you feel like gambling that this time he’s actually healthy.
Ben Carsley’s Fantasy Take: I tend not to shy away from injury-prone pitchers if I think they possess big-time upside (hello, Nate Pearson), but Kaprielian is a bridge too far for me. He’s a top-200 dude because there just aren’t many guys who can match his pure strikeout potential, but he didn’t sniff our top-101 and I don’t think he’d sniff a theoretical top-150 either. I am too scared.

9. Jorge Mateo, SS
DOB: 6/23/95
Height/Weight: 6’0”/ 190 lbs. 
Bats/Throws: R/R
Drafted/Acquired: Signed January 2012 by the Yankees out of the Dominican Republic for $250,000; acquired via trade with the New York Yankees for Sonny Gray
Previous Ranking(s): #3 (org), #79 (Top 101)
2018 Stats: .230/.280/.353, 3 HR, 25 SB in 131 games at Triple-A Nashville
The Report: Mateo is one of the fastest players in the minors. He’s a premium athlete, full stop. He can play shortstop, center field, and second base, and presumably would be fine at the positions down the defensive spectrum from there. At times, he’s shown real flashes of power, and he wound up with 60 extra base hits in the minors in 2017.
At the end of the day though, you can’t steal first base. Mateo hit .230 last year, in the PCL of all places. He’s not going to put together enough walks or power to make up for that level of bad hitting, and indeed the collapse in hitting ability torpedoed his non-speed secondary offensive skills too. In sum, he had a 58 DRC+ in Triple-A, worse than any regular hitter in the majors except for Chris Davis.
We’ve had concerns about Mateo’s ability to hit for average since basically day one. He has good technical underpinnings in terms of swing plane, bat speed, and bat control, which has led to sporadic bursts of success at the plate. Unfortunately, his plate discipline and pitch recognition often limits him far more than it should. Those concerns were amplified when he spent a year-and-a-half puttering in High-A, and remain significant today. 
Mateo is still likely to have a substantial MLB career if things don’t work out with the stick, as his speed and defense will give him enough utility to survive in a bench role. But it might not be as a particularly valuable player unless he figures out a way to get to first. We might even suggest the Baltimore chop at this point.
The Role:
OFP 50—Speedy super-utility guy or second-division starter
Likely 40—Speedy regular utility guy
The Risks: Medium, almost all in the overall offensive profile. Speed is a useful tool, but hit is more useful, and Mateo has only consistently shown the former. —Jarrett Seidler
Major league ETA: Late 2019
Ben Carsley’s Fantasy Take: We used to be pretty high on Mateo, but he has proven fairly definitively to us that he can’t hit enough for his speed to matter. If you want to call him a top-200 guy because of the pure speed upside that’s fine, but I’ve cut bait pretty much everywhere I held him at this point. If he ends up playing near-every day at some point due to injuries or small steps forward in his bat, then sure, pick him up again. But Mateo looks like a bench piece through and through.        

10. Jameson Hannah, OF
DOB: 8/10/97
Height/Weight: 5’9”/ 185 lbs. 
Bats/Throws: L/L
Drafted/Acquired: Drafted 50th overall in the 2018 draft, Dallas Baptist University (Dallas, TX); signed for $1.8 million.
Previous Ranking(s): NR
2018 Stats: .279/.347/.384, 1 HR, 6 SB in 23 games at Short-Season Vermont
The Report: Hannah played on a high-powered offense at Dallas Baptist and was pretty clearly the best player on the team due to his bat and ability in center. He is a plus athlete with good coordination and quick twitch. He has broad shoulders and an athletic build on a short frame that doesn’t have much room, if any, to put on weight without losing a step.
Hannah has above-average feel for the barrel and plus bat speed, but his swing generates his hardest contact on low line drives and burners. His average raw power gets left by the wayside in most plate appearances. Hannah is willing to take walks, but struggles with the soft stuff.
Hannah is currently a plus runner and he gets down the line very quickly from the left side. His jumps in center and plus footspeed give him plenty of range, although he will need to clean up his routes and reads to get the most out of his wheels. Hannah’s arm is fringy and will likely play best in left or center.
Hannah’s athleticism and tools suggest a future as a versatile fourth outfielder who can get on base at a decent clip. If he can tap into more of his raw power without losing a step, he could play himself into regular work in center.
The Role:
OFP: 50—Average regular in center

Likely: 40—Fourth outfielder
The Risks: 

Medium: Still far away and although the athleticism, feel for hit, and current approach suggest he will transition well into his first full season of pro ball, he struggled in the Cape against high level pitching. —Kevin Carter
Major league ETA: 2021

Ben Carsley’s Fantasy Take: Hannah is the type of guy who may end up on the very back of a top-101 the year before he reaches the majors if we think he has a clear path to playing time. But that’s his ceiling, and given the likelihood that he ends up more of a good fourth outfielder than a true first division dude, he’s just one for the watch list for now.
The Next Five:
11. Nick Allen, SS (Low-A Beloit)
12. Kevin Merrell, SS (High-A Stockton)
About as good a matched pair as you will find back-to-back in any system (although Holmes/Kaprelian aren’t far off I suppose).
When the Athletics spent two million bucks in the 2017 draft to buy the diminutive Allen out of his USC commitment, they were purchasing a glove and some speed with the hopes that the bat would develop. He struggled some in an aggressive Midwest League assignment, and it remains hard to see much impact with the bat, but the glove and speed were as advertised. He’s strong for his size but this is a gap power profile at best. Allen doesn’t have to hit a ton to be a second-division starter type, but the most likely outcome here is speedy utility infielder.
Merrell is the Cal League version of Allen. He’s faster by a fair bit, as he’ll pop borderline elite run times, but is a bit rougher at the six. He’s improved enough that we’ll project him as a shortstop though, and he’s a more polished hitter—as you’d expect from the college bat versus the prep one. He doesn’t offer much in the way of pop either, as he’s slight of frame with a relatively flat swing plane and little leg drive. If he slaps enough balls into the alleys and sneaks some extra bases he could play everyday, but again, the most likely outcome here is (very) speedy utility infielder.
13. Jeremy Eierman, SS (Short-season Vermont)
Eierman certainly has more power than the two shortstops ahead of him on this list, but that comes with a price. The swing is long and leveraged, and he tends to take hacks more appropriate for a more stoutly built baseball player. So while he offers plus raw power, how much of it plays in games against better arms is far from determined. He’s also less likely to stick at short than Allen or Merrell. I’m happy to write off a poor post-draft performance, even for a polished college performer in the Penn League—it’s a long season for those dudes—but it reflects some of the offensive concerns that cropped up his junior year at Missouri State and slid him down everyone’s draft board. There’s certainly enough power potential here to project a second division starter in the middle infield, but again, the most likely outcome here is utility infielder.
14. Daulton Jefferies, RHP (AZL Athletics)
The last two spots on the top 15 are injury mulligans, which isn’t a great sign for your system depth after you had three (arguably three and a half) in your top ten as well. Jefferies is of the more traditional variety, as he spent almost all of 2018 recovering from Tommy John surgery. There were already questions coming out of college about whether his short, slight frame would hold up to the rigors of pro starting, and he has answered exactly none of them two-and-a-half years into his career. He’s shown three average-or-better offerings in the past, and Oakland must be getting awfully tempted to turn him loose in the pen. The problem is that Jefferies really needs pro reps. It’s easier to get those when you are stretched out, so you might as well give him one more spin as a starter, even if “fastball/slider reliever” looks like his destiny.
15. Greg Deichmann, OF (High-A Stockton)
You can explain away some of Deichmann’s struggles this year to the wrist injury that limited him to just 58 games, but you still have to reckon with the fact that a 23-year-old corner outfielder posted a .667 OPS in the Cal League. The tools are there for a power-hitting right fielder, but the wrist injury can’t explain away the issues with north-south sequencing or spin. Ultimately, his season was too muddled to write Deichmann off entirely, but it’s also a lost year of needed development time and he’ll be under a lot of pressure to hit this season.
Top Talents 25 and Under:
1.	Matt Chapman
2.	Jesus Luzardo
3.	Matt Olson
4.	Ramon Laureano
5.	A.J. Puk
6.	Sean Murphy
7.	Franklin Barreto
8.	Dustin Fowler
9.	Daniel Mengden
10.	Frankie Montas
Well hello there, beautiful. This crew suddenly harkens back to the halcyon days of the early aughts in terms of both quality and quantity of controllable young talent in or at the cusp of the big leagues. And it doesn’t include recent acquisition and former undisputed champion uber-prospect Jurickson Profar, who aged out of consideration by mere weeks.
Matt Chapman introduced himself to the world last year, bringing his elite leather and game power to bear on American League opponents for a full season. Sure, he’ll likely continue to whiff a good bit, and his lack of barrel control may prevent him from becoming a true superstar. But the Fullerton product sure looks like a swell bet to get awfully close and he’s set to be one of the game’s best players for the next several years. 
For his part, Matt Olson followed up a dynamite debut with some expected offensive regression in Year Two. The power is very real though, and the glove looks pretty sweet by cold-corner standards as well. It’s certainly not the most dynamic of profiles, and he’s never going to win a stolen base title. But a solid two-to-three win first baseman with 30ish bankable dingers remains a very nice thing for a cost-conscious team to be able to bank.
Ramon Laureano introduced himself to the world when he uncorked one of the best throws of the year, but he’s looked like a solid all-around ballplayer for much longer than that. A down first half in 2017 took some of the shine off his Lancaster breakout the year before, but he went right on back to hitting at Double-A that summer and hasn’t really stopped since. An electric defensive package, strong on-base skills and hard line-drive contact… that’s a lot of boxes checked for a potential top-of-the-lineup anchor for years to come.
Barreto made our 101 for four consecutive years from 2015 to 2018, but his stock is down after struggling to make quality contact in his first few big-league cameos. That’s not great news for a player whose profile has ostensibly rested on the back of a quality hit tool projection. But he’s added a good deal of pop to the package, and the athleticism up the middle remains an asset, albeit on the right side of the second-base bag these days. 
Dustin Fowler’s gruesome knee injury continues to fade further into the rearview mirror, and while he went the Barreto route and struggled to adapt to life in The Show last year, he raked in Triple-A while also logging the top recorded 90-foot sprint speed in the big leagues. He’s a highly aggressive hitter, and that’s always going to be a limiting factor for his offensive ceiling. But he’s a good enough bat-to-ball guy that it can work, and he profiles as a big-league regular.
Daniel Mengden and Frankie Montas did eerily similar work last season, swinging between the rotation and middle relief to provide wonderfully cheap and useful innings despite not striking anybody out. Neither managed to crack six whiffs per nine, and neither in turn cracked 120 for a DRA-. It’s unclear where either finds a next gear, though Mengden’s hook and Montas’ four-seam heat are both legitimate weapons. The important thing is that both managed to defy their peripherals and establish themselves as legitimate big-league arms. —Wilson Karaman

